content/_index.md, before:

---
title: "About Me"
description: "PhD candidate in sociology and Mellon Cluster Fellow in science studies at Northwestern University"
hide_home_widgets: true
bluesky_username: "claydav.is"
goodreads_username: "claydavis"
---
I am a PhD Candidate in Sociology and Mellon Cluster Fellow in science studies at [Northwestern University](https://sociology.northwestern.edu/people/graduate-students/profiles/clay-davis.html). My work is concerned with the tensions between democracy and expertise. In my dissertation, I study how surgeons, judges, and global health NGOs use the statistical method of meta-analysis to make ostensibly objective decisions. In their reliance on meta-analysis, these actors transform social conflicts into statistical ones, enacting what I call "*P*-value politics."

In earlier work, I focused on the clashes between health social movements and biomedical experts. In my [2023 *Social Studies of Science* paper](/publications/peer-reviewed-papers/3s2/), I explain how a group of people with type 1 diabetes who engineered an open-source artificial pancreas "routinized" their lay expertise. And in my [2020 *Social Studies of Science* paper](/publications/peer-reviewed-papers/3s1/), I study how contemporary HIV/AIDS activists challenged clinical researchers' definition of being "at risk" for HIV.

Commit message:

added shi paper, restructured awards, changed font, added research summary

content/_index.md, after:

---
title: "About Me"
description: "PhD Candidate in Sociology and Mellon Cluster Fellow in Science Studies at Northwestern University"
hide_home_widgets: true
bluesky_username: "claydav.is"
goodreads_username: "claydavis"
---
I am a PhD Candidate in Sociology and Mellon Cluster Fellow in science studies at [Northwestern University](https://sociology.northwestern.edu/people/graduate-students/profiles/clay-davis.html). My work is concerned with the tensions between democracy and expertise. In my dissertation, I study how surgeons, global health NGOs, and judges use the statistical method of meta-analysis to settle contentious debates. In their reliance on meta-analysis, these actors transform social conflicts into statistical ones, enacting what I call "*p*-value politics."

In earlier work, I focused on the clashes between health social movements and biomedical experts. In my [2023 *Social Studies of Science* paper](/research/peer-reviewed-papers/3s2/), I explain how a group of people with type 1 diabetes who engineered an open-source artificial pancreas "routinized" their lay expertise. Earlier, in my [2020 *Social Studies of Science* paper](/research/peer-reviewed-papers/3s1/), I demonstrate how contemporary HIV/AIDS activists challenged clinical researchers' definition of being "at risk" for HIV.

My research is funded by the National Science Foundation and Northwestern's [Buffett Institute for Global Affairs](https://buffett.northwestern.edu/programs/graduate-opportunities/graduate-fellowships/dissertation-fellowship-program/cohort/). I was recently interviewed by Northwestern's [*TGS Spotlight*](https://www.tgs.northwestern.edu/about/our-people/spotlight/clay-davis-hehim.html).
