---
course_title: "Sociological Theory"
role: "Co-instructor"
evaluation_title_1: "The TA was able to answer the students' questions adequately."
evaluation_score_1: 5.82
evaluation_denom_1: 6
evaluation_n_1: 17
evaluation_title_2: "The TA was well prepared for each session."
evaluation_score_2: 6
evaluation_denom_2: 6
evaluation_n_2: 17
evaluation_title_3: "The TA communicated ideas in a clear manner."
evaluation_score_3: 5.76
evaluation_denom_3: 6
evaluation_n_3: 17
evaluation_title_4: "The TA showed strong interest in teaching the course."
evaluation_score_4: 5.94
evaluation_denom_4: 6
evaluation_n_4: 17
term: "Winter"
year: 2025
---
"Clay went above and beyond as a TA and I am so grateful for him! He gave in depth presentations on the important points of each of the papers, which were super helpful to use when studying for the final. He treats every student with kindness and is a great listener during class and in office hours. Thank you Clay for your hard work and dedication to this class!"

"Great TA; thank you for the office hours. I feel like Clay made expectations regarding assignments pretty clear, and his one–time lecture was one of my highlights of the course."

"I think Clay will make a great professor one day. I liked how he presented the theory and clearly explained future essay improvements."

"His lectures were incredibly thoughtful and detailed, it is evident that he understands the material he is teaching and cares about the students’ learning experience. His lectures were thought–provoking, engaging, and insightful. Every time this TA taught, the class and I understood precisely what each reading and assignment was about and its purpose in sociological theory. His feedback on essay assignments went above and beyond, providing extensive details on what worked and what could be further developed— and how to do so. His insights and teaching method showcase the impact that the lecturer has on students’ learning and curiosity in the classroom!"